title: Global API
type: api
order: 5
---

### Vue.config

`Vue.config` is an object containing Vue's global settings. Here are the list of all the avaiable settings with their default values:

``` js
{
  // print stack trace for warnings?
  debug: true,
  // attribute prefix for directives
  prefix: 'v-',
  // interpolation delimiters
  // for HTML interpolations, add
  // 1 extra outer-most character.
  delimiters: ['{{', '}}'],
  // suppress warnings?
  silent: false,
  // interpolate mustache bindings?
  interpolate: true,
  // use async updates (for directives & watchers)?
  async: true,
  // allow altering observed Array's prototype chain?
  proto: true
}
```

You can modify them directly, for example:

``` js
Vue.config.debug = true // turn on debugging mode
```

**Debug Mode**

When `Vue.config.debug` is set to true, Vue will automatically use synchronous mode and throw a `debugger` statement when there is a warning. This enables the user to inspect the full stack trace in browser dev tools.

<p class="tip">debug mode is not available in the minified production builds.</p>

**Changing Delimiters**

When the delimiters are set for text interpolation, the delimiters for HTML interpolation will be generated by adding one outer-most symbol on both sides:

``` js
Vue.config.delimiters = ['(%', '%)']
// tags now are (% %) for text
// and ((% %)) for HTML
```

### Vue.extend( options )

- **options** `Object`

Create a "subclass" of the base Vue constructor. All [instantiation options](/api/options.html) can be used here. The special cases to note here are `el` and `data`, which must be functions in this case.

Internally, `Vue.extend()` is called on all component options before instantiating the components. For more details regarding components, see [Component System](/guide/components.html).

**Example**
``` html
<div id="mount-point"></div>
```

``` js
// create reusable constructor
var Profile = Vue.extend({
  template: '<p>{{firstName}} {{lastName}} aka {{alias}}</p>'
})
// create an instance of Profile
var profile = new Profile({
  data: {
    firstName : 'Walter',
    lastName  : 'White',
    alias     : 'Heisenberg'
  }  
})
// mount it on an element
profile.$mount('#mount-point')
```

Will result in:

``` html
<p>Walter White aka Heisenberg</p>
```

### Vue.nextTick( callback )

- **callback** `Function`

Defer the callback to be executed after the next DOM update cycle. Use it immediately after you've changed some data to wait for the DOM update. For more details see [Understanding Async Updates](/guide/directives.html#Understanding_Async_Updates).

### Vue.directive( id, [definition] )

- **id** `String`
- **definition** `Function` or `Object` *optional*

Register or retrieve a global custom directive. For more details see [Writing Custom Directives](/guide/custom-directive.html).

### Vue.elementDirective( id, [definition] )

- **id** `String`
- **definition** `Function` or `Object` *optional*

Register or retrieve a global custom element directive. For more details see [Element Directives](/guide/custom-directive.html#Element_Directives).

### Vue.filter( id, [definition] )

- **id** `String`
- **definition** `Function` *optional*

Register or retrieve a global custom filter. For more details see [Writing Custom Filters](/guide/custom-filter.html).

### Vue.component( id, [definition] )

- **id** `String`
- **definition** `Function Constructor` or `Object` *optional*

Register or retrieve a global component. For more details see [Component System](/guide/components.html).

### Vue.transition( id, [definition] )

- **id** `String`
- **definition** `Object` *optional*

Register or retrieve a global JavaScript transition effect definition. For more details see the guide for [JavaScript Transitions](/guide/transitions.html#JavaScript_Functions).

### Vue.use( plugin, [args...] )

- **plugin** `Object` or `Function`
- **args...** *optional*

Mount a Vue.js plugin. If the plugin is an Object, it must have an `install` method. If it is a function itself, it will be treated as the install method. The install method will be called with Vue as the argument. For more details, see [Plugins](/guide/extending.html#Extend_with_Plugins).

### Vue.util

Exposes the internal `util` module, which contains a number of utility methods. This is intended for advanced plugin/directive authoring, so you will need to look at the source code to see what's available.
